RHDEVDOCS-2796: Access-PipelineRun-TaskRun-Logs-in-OpenShift-Cluster-Logging (#36023)
openshift/openshift-docs: cicd/pipelines/viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator.adoc

> [id='viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator"]
```
See guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#assemblymodule-titles-and-section-headings

> [id="viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator"]
> = Viewing pipeline logs using the OpenShift Logging Operator
> 
> include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
> include::modules/pipelines-document-attributes.adoc[]
> 
> :context: viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator"]
= Viewing pipeline logs using the OpenShift Logging Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
include::modules/pipelines-document-attributes.adoc[]
:context: viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator
```

Please carefully review the OCP guidelines going forward: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#assembly-file-metadata
I think this spacing is causing rendering issues.

toc::[]

The logs generated by pipeline runs, task runs, and event listeners are stored in their respective pods. It is useful to review and analyze logs for troubleshooting and audits.

However, retaining the pods indefinitely leads to unnecessary resource consumption and cluttered namespaces.

To eliminate any dependency on the pods for viewing pipeline logs, you can use the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator. These Operators help you to view pipeline logs by using the link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/6.8/connect-to-elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch Kibana] stack, even after you have deleted the pods that contained the logs.

> [id="prerequisites_{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="prerequisites_viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator"]
```
See guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-prerequisites-additional-resources-and-next-steps-titles-in-assemblies

== Prerequisites

Before trying to view pipeline logs in a Kibana dashboard, ensure the following:

* The steps are performed by a cluster administrator.
* Logs for pipeline runs and task runs are available.
* The OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator are installed.

include::modules/op-viewing-pipeline-logs-in-kibana.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

> [id="additional-resources_{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="additional-resources_viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator"]
```
See guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-prerequisites-additional-resources-and-next-steps-titles-in-assemblies

[id='viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator']
= Viewing pipeline logs using the OpenShift Logging Operator

include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
include::modules/pipelines-document-attributes.adoc[]

:context: viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator

toc::[]

> The logs generated by pipeline runs, task runs, and event listeners are stored in the respective pods. It is often useful to review and analyze such logs for troubleshooting and audits. However, retaining the pods indefinitely leads to unnecessary resource consumption and cluttered namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The logs generated by pipeline runs, task runs, and event listeners are stored in their respective pods. It is useful to review and analyze logs for troubleshooting and audits. Retaining the pods indefinitely leads to unnecessary resource consumption and cluttered namespaces.
```

Suggested edits for minimalism and simpler reading.

> To eliminate dependency on pods for viewing pipeline logs, you can use the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator. These Operators help you to view pipeline logs by using the link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/6.8/connect-to-elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch Kibana] stack, even after you have deleted the pods that contained the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To eliminate any dependency on the pods for viewing pipeline logs, you can use the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator. These Operators help you to view pipeline logs by using the link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/6.8/connect-to-elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch Kibana] stack, even after you have deleted the pods that contained the logs.
```
wording suggestion

> To eliminate dependency on pods for viewing pipeline logs, you can use the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator provided by {pipelines-title}. These Operators helps you see pipeline logs using the link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/6.8/connect-to-elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch Kibana] stack, even after deleting the pods containing the logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To eliminate dependency on pods for viewing pipeline logs, you can use the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator provided by {pipelines-title}. You can see pipeline logs using the link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/6.8/connect-to-elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch Kibana] stack, even after deleting the pods that contain the logs.
```

Suggested edit. The second sentence was pretty hard to understand so I suggest the above edit. If it changes the meaning of the sentence, feel free to ignore.

> To eliminate dependency on pods for viewing pipeline logs, you can use the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator provided by {pipelines-title}. These Operators helps you see pipeline logs using the link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/6.8/connect-to-elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch Kibana] stack, even after deleting the pods containing the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To eliminate dependency on pods for viewing pipeline logs, you can use the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator provided by {pipelines-title}. These Operators help you to view pipeline logs by using the link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/6.8/connect-to-elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch Kibana] stack, even after you have deleted the pods that contained the logs.
```

Reviewer: Some questions for this one
1. Are there variables for those Operator names? Mostly to make your life easier when writing 🙂 we have a variable we use for the {ServerlessOperatorName} so I wasn't sure if there's something similar you want to use for things like OpenShift Logging Operator or maybe want to add these?
2. It says the Operators are provided by Pipelines, but are they really? Is there a dependency of installing some Pipelines component(s) before you can install these Operators, or should "provided by {pipelines-title}" maybe be removed?

Author: I did not find variables for these Operators, so keeping plaintext for now.

[discrete]

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer: According to the https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#discrete-headings guidelines even discrete headings need an ID (see https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-prerequisites-additional-resources-and-next-steps-titles-in-assemblies for prereq IDs)

Author: Removed [discrete].

Before trying to view pipeline logs in a Kibana dashboard, ensure the following:

* You are a cluster administrator or have equivalent permissions.
* You have run pipelines and tasks for a project, and logs are available.

> * You have installed the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the OpenShift Logging Operator.

Reviewer 3: This **you are/have** seems superfluous.

a) It doesn't have to be **you** who performed the actions.
b) It's called **Prerequisites**, so it's obvious that it needs to done. We could be adding **you have/need to** in front of every single instruction in the doc.

> 
> 
> include::modules/op-viewing-pipeline-logs-in-kibana.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

include::modules/op-viewing-pipeline-logs-in-kibana.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

```

I'd remove additional spaces here

> == Additional resources

Reviewer: headings need an ID: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-prerequisites-additional-resources-and-next-steps-titles-in-assemblies

> * For information on installing the OpenShift Logging Operator, see the xref:../../logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc[Installing OpenShift Logging] section.

Reviewer 3: **For more information on** is superfluous.
